---
layout:      post
title:       "Stephen Bishtawi Gets Naked"
subtitle:    "Metaphorically speaking of course"
description: "Stephen Bishtawi: A co-founder of Topophi"
tags:        [Stephen Bishtawi, Bio, Topophi]
date:        2015-04-10
author:      "Stephen Bishtawi"
---

<p>Hello everyone!</p>

<p>I am Stephen, another cofounder (how many of them are there?) of Topophi! My friends and I formed this company to solve one of the biggest challenges of backpacking: the planning. Anytime my friends and I wanted to go backpacking for the weekend, planning the trip was always a pain in the ass. Does the forest allow fires? Where do we park our car? What other regulations should we be aware of? I am sure we have all shared this frustrating experience. The information is scattered across multiple hard to navigate websites. And some information isnt even available online, you have to call a park ranger! There has got to be a better way! And so Topophi was born.</p>

<p>I was not always a backpacker. And if you ever meet me you would quickly see that I am not an athletic person. I am not into sports or crossfit or whatever athletic people do nowadays. But I like backpacking. I enjoy hiking and camping and getting lost in nature. I am a software developer by trade and I spend most of my time on the computer building things. But there is just something special about getting away from civilization and the internet with all its cute pictures of cats and just immersing myself into the wonderful world around us.</p>

<p>I started going camping at a young age. My father would always drag out our family every summer to some campground hours away from home. My father, mother, brother and I would cram into this small $50 tent and he would call that vacation. We hated it. The ground was hard. The flies were everywhere. When it wasn't flies, it was bees. It was always hot. The restrooms were horrible (although looking back, at least there were restrooms!). And there was nothing ever to do. Our gameboys would always mysteriously disappear the day we drove out. It sucked. But then it grew on me. My curiosity kicked in and I began to enjoy the hikes to the nearby lakes and rivers. At night we would sit around the fire cooking smores and staring into the night sky. The stars were always a treat. That is unfortunately something we lose out on when we live in the city. It wasn't long till I was asking my dad when was the next time we were going camping. Since then, my family has camped in Bryce Canyon, the Grand Canyon and several other smaller campsites in southern California.</p>

<p>In college I met Joe, one of our other co-founders.. We lived in the same dorm and bonded over shared interests in science, video games and food. It was not long till we were going camping together with a few of our other friends. We camped at Yosemite, Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Park. I'll never forget our trip to Yosemite. We planned out a hike from our campsite to Half Dome and back. It was 20 miles roundtrip. And it was amazing. The Mist Trail was one of a kind and standing on top of Half Dome was exhilarating. Our trip was not perfect however. We had contracted food poisoning on the drive there and half of our group, myself included, had diarrhea problems while on the hike. We didn't get back till after nightfall. We were all sore, tired, and dehydrated but it was glorious and an amazing experience that we still talk about years later.</p>

<p>Since then I've visited Joshua Tree, hiked up Freel Peak in Tahoe, and trekked local peaks like Mount San Antonio in Los Angeles and San Gorgonio Mountain in San Bernardino. I've moved on from simple car camping to four day backpacking trips. I am a slow hiker (ask the other co-founders, they leave me in the dust on the trails), but I always make it. And I always enjoy it. The uphills and the downhills. Well, okay, maybe not the uphills. And the downhills are a little hard on the knees. But its way more enjoyable than planning the trip and having to deal with the lack of information online. Backpacking is my hobby. I want to get out there as quickly as possible without having to deal with hunting for permits. We are building Topophi to help backpackers, like ourselves, get the information they want easily and quickly.</p>

<p>My name is Stephen Bishtawi. I am a backpacker and a software engineer. I am building Topophi for myself, for you, and your backpacking buddies.</p>